src/commands/README.md, before:

# Command Module Architecture

This document provides comprehensive documentation for the command module architecture, including the standardized patterns implemented across all command modules.

## Overview

The command modules have been refactored to eliminate code duplication and improve maintainability through standardized patterns. The refactoring has successfully reduced duplicate code by approximately 200+ lines while improving consistency and readability.

## Architecture Components

### 1. CommandExecutor Trait

The `CommandExecutor` trait provides a standardized pattern for command execution across all modules:

```rust
impl CommandExecutor for WorkspaceCommands {
    type Commands = WorkspaceCommands;
    
    async fn execute(command: Self::Commands, config: &Config) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
        let api = ApiUtils::create_client(config)?;
        Self::handle_command(command, &api).await
    }
    
    async fn handle_command(command: Self::Commands, api: &ClickUpApi) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
        match command {
            WorkspaceCommands::List => list_workspaces(api).await?,
            WorkspaceCommands::Show { id } => show_workspace(api, &id).await?,
        }
        Ok(())
    }
}
```

**Benefits:**
- Standardized command execution flow
- Centralized API client creation
- Consistent error handling
- Separation of concerns

### 2. Utility Modules

The `utils` module provides standardized utilities used across all command modules:

#### TableBuilder
Builder pattern for consistent table creation:
```rust
let mut table_builder = TableBuilder::new();
table_builder.add_header(vec![
    TableHeaders::id(),
    TableHeaders::name(),
    TableHeaders::members(),
]);

for item in &items {
    table_builder.add_row(vec![
        item.id.clone(),
        item.name.as_deref().unwrap_or("").to_string(),
        item.members.len().to_string(),
    ]);
}

table_builder.print();
```

#### DisplayUtils
Standardized output formatting:
```rust
// Empty results
if items.is_empty() {
    DisplayUtils::display_empty_message("workspaces");
    return Ok(());
}

// Details display
DisplayUtils::display_details_header("Workspace");
println!("ID: {}", workspace.id);
println!("Name: {}", workspace.name.as_deref().unwrap_or(""));

// Member display
let members: Vec<(String, Option<String>)> = workspace
    .members
    .iter()
    .map(|m| {
        let username = m.user.username.as_deref().unwrap_or("Unknown user").to_string();
        let email = m.user.email.clone();
        (username, email)
    })
    .collect();
DisplayUtils::display_members(&members);
```

#### ErrorUtils
Consistent error handling:
```rust
Err(ErrorUtils::not_found_error("Workspace", id))
```

#### ApiUtils
Centralized API client creation:
```rust
let api = ApiUtils::create_client(config)?;
```

#### TableHeaders
Standardized table header constants:
```rust
TableHeaders::id()
TableHeaders::name()
TableHeaders::members()
TableHeaders::color()
// ... and more
```

## Implementation Status

### ✅ Completed Patterns (6/7 files)

1. **CommandExecutor trait** - Standardized execution flow
2. **Table creation pattern** - Consistent table formatting
3. **Empty results handling** - Uniform empty state messages
4. **Details display pattern** - Consistent detail formatting
5. **API client creation** - Centralized client creation
6. **Error handling patterns** - Standardized error creation
7. **Member display pattern** - Consistent member formatting

### ⚠️ Remaining Work

- Auth module API creation (1 file - low priority)
- Test file API creation (optional)

## Command Module Structure

Each command module follows this consistent structure:

```rust
// 1. Command enum definition
#[derive(Subcommand)]
pub enum WorkspaceCommands {
    List,
    Show { id: String },
}

// 2. CommandExecutor implementation
impl CommandExecutor for WorkspaceCommands {
    // ... implementation
}

// 3. Public execute function
pub async fn execute(command: WorkspaceCommands, config: &Config) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
    WorkspaceCommands::execute(command, config).await
}

// 4. Individual handler functions
async fn list_workspaces(api: &ClickUpApi) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
    // Implementation using utilities
}

async fn show_workspace(api: &ClickUpApi, id: &str) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
    // Implementation using utilities
}
```

## Benefits Achieved

### Code Reduction
- **~200+ lines** of duplicate code eliminated
- **~30-40% reduction** in command file sizes
- **6 out of 7** command modules standardized

### Maintainability
- Changes to common patterns only need to be made in one place
- New commands can follow established patterns
- Consistent error handling and display formatting

### Consistency
- All commands follow the same patterns
- Uniform table formatting and styling
- Standardized error messages and display

### Development Speed
- Faster development of new commands
- Reduced debugging time due to consistent patterns
- Clear documentation and examples

## Usage Examples

### Creating a New Command

1. **Define the command enum:**
```rust
#[derive(Subcommand)]
pub enum MyCommands {
    List,
    Show { id: String },
}
```

2. **Implement CommandExecutor:**
```rust
impl CommandExecutor for MyCommands {
    type Commands = MyCommands;
    
    async fn execute(command: Self::Commands, config: &Config) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
        let api = ApiUtils::create_client(config)?;
        Self::handle_command(command, &api).await
    }
    
    async fn handle_command(command: Self::Commands, api: &ClickUpApi) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
        match command {
            MyCommands::List => list_items(api).await?,
            MyCommands::Show { id } => show_item(api, &id).await?,
        }
        Ok(())
    }
}
```

3. **Implement handler functions using utilities:**
```rust
async fn list_items(api: &ClickUpApi) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
    let items = api.get_items().await?;
    
    if items.is_empty() {
        DisplayUtils::display_empty_message("items");
        return Ok(());
    }
    
    let mut table_builder = TableBuilder::new();
    table_builder.add_header(vec![
        TableHeaders::id(),
        TableHeaders::name(),
    ]);
    
    for item in &items {
        table_builder.add_row(vec![
            item.id.clone(),
            item.name.as_deref().unwrap_or("").to_string(),
        ]);
    }
    
    table_builder.print();
    Ok(())
}
```

## Best Practices

1. **Always use utilities** for common operations (tables, display, errors)
2. **Follow the CommandExecutor pattern** for new commands
3. **Use TableHeaders constants** for consistent column names
4. **Handle empty results** with DisplayUtils::display_empty_message()
5. **Use ErrorUtils** for consistent error creation
6. **Use ApiUtils** for API client creation

## Testing

The standardized patterns make testing easier:
- Consistent error handling patterns
- Centralized API client creation
- Standardized display formatting
- Predictable command execution flow

## Future Enhancements

Potential areas for future improvement:
- Additional utility functions for common patterns
- More sophisticated table formatting options
- Enhanced error handling utilities
- Performance optimizations for large datasets

## Conclusion

The command module refactoring has successfully achieved its goals of reducing code duplication, improving maintainability, and ensuring consistency across all command modules. The standardized patterns provide a solid foundation for future development while making the codebase more readable and maintainable.

Commit message:

Continued docs updates, add lib tests

src/commands/README.md, after:

# Command Module Architecture

This document provides comprehensive documentation for the command module architecture, including the standardized patterns implemented across all command modules.

## Overview

The command modules have been refactored to eliminate code duplication and improve maintainability through standardized patterns. The refactoring has successfully reduced duplicate code by approximately 200+ lines while improving consistency and readability.

## Architecture Components

### 1. CommandExecutor Trait

The `CommandExecutor` trait provides a standardized pattern for command execution across all modules:

```rust
impl CommandExecutor for WorkspaceCommands {
    type Commands = WorkspaceCommands;
    
    async fn execute(command: Self::Commands, config: &Config) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
        let api = ApiUtils::create_client(config)?;
        Self::handle_command(command, &api).await
    }
    
    async fn handle_command(command: Self::Commands, api: &ClickUpApi) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
        match command {
            WorkspaceCommands::List => list_workspaces(api).await?,
            WorkspaceCommands::Show { id } => show_workspace(api, &id).await?,
        }
        Ok(())
    }
}
```

**Benefits:**
- Standardized command execution flow
- Centralized API client creation
- Consistent error handling
- Separation of concerns

### 2. Utility Modules

The `utils` module provides standardized utilities used across all command modules:

#### TableBuilder
Builder pattern for consistent table creation:
```rust
let mut table_builder = TableBuilder::new();
table_builder.add_header(vec![
    TableHeaders::id(),
    TableHeaders::name(),
    TableHeaders::members(),
]);

for item in &items {
    table_builder.add_row(vec![
        item.id.clone(),
        item.name.as_deref().unwrap_or("").to_string(),
        item.members.len().to_string(),
    ]);
}

table_builder.print();
```

#### DisplayUtils
Standardized output formatting:
```rust
// Empty results
if items.is_empty() {
    DisplayUtils::display_empty_message("workspaces");
    return Ok(());
}

// Details display
DisplayUtils::display_details_header("Workspace");
println!("ID: {}", workspace.id);
println!("Name: {}", workspace.name.as_deref().unwrap_or(""));

// Member display
let members: Vec<(String, Option<String>)> = workspace
    .members
    .iter()
    .map(|m| {
        let username = m.user.username.as_deref().unwrap_or("Unknown user").to_string();
        let email = m.user.email.clone();
        (username, email)
    })
    .collect();
DisplayUtils::display_members(&members);
```

#### ErrorUtils
Consistent error handling:
```rust
Err(ErrorUtils::not_found_error("Workspace", id))
```

#### ApiUtils
Centralized API client creation:
```rust
let api = ApiUtils::create_client(config)?;
```

#### TableHeaders
Standardized table header constants:
```rust
TableHeaders::id()
TableHeaders::name()
TableHeaders::members()
TableHeaders::color()
// ... and more
```

## Implementation Status

For current implementation status and quality metrics, see:
**[dev-docs/PROJECT_STATUS.md](../dev-docs/PROJECT_STATUS.md)**

### ✅ Completed Patterns (6/7 files)

1. **CommandExecutor trait** - Standardized execution flow
2. **Table creation pattern** - Consistent table formatting
3. **Empty results handling** - Uniform empty state messages
4. **Details display pattern** - Consistent detail formatting
5. **API client creation** - Centralized client creation
6. **Error handling patterns** - Standardized error creation
7. **Member display pattern** - Consistent member formatting

### ⚠️ Remaining Work

- Auth module API creation (1 file - low priority)
- Test file API creation (optional)

## Command Module Structure

Each command module follows this consistent structure:

```rust
// 1. Command enum definition
#[derive(Subcommand)]
pub enum WorkspaceCommands {
    List,
    Show { id: String },
}

// 2. CommandExecutor implementation
impl CommandExecutor for WorkspaceCommands {
    // ... implementation
}

// 3. Public execute function
pub async fn execute(command: WorkspaceCommands, config: &Config) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
    WorkspaceCommands::execute(command, config).await
}

// 4. Individual handler functions
async fn list_workspaces(api: &ClickUpApi) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
    // Implementation using utilities
}

async fn show_workspace(api: &ClickUpApi, id: &str) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
    // Implementation using utilities
}
```

## Benefits Achieved

### Code Reduction
- **~200+ lines** of duplicate code eliminated
- **~30-40% reduction** in command file sizes
- **6 out of 7** command modules standardized

### Maintainability
- Changes to common patterns only need to be made in one place
- New commands can follow established patterns
- Consistent error handling and display formatting

### Consistency
- All commands follow the same patterns
- Uniform table formatting and styling
- Standardized error messages and display

### Development Speed
- Faster development of new commands
- Reduced debugging time due to consistent patterns
- Clear documentation and examples

## Usage Examples

### Creating a New Command

1. **Define the command enum:**
```rust
#[derive(Subcommand)]
pub enum MyCommands {
    List,
    Show { id: String },
}
```

2. **Implement CommandExecutor:**
```rust
impl CommandExecutor for MyCommands {
    type Commands = MyCommands;
    
    async fn execute(command: Self::Commands, config: &Config) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
        let api = ApiUtils::create_client(config)?;
        Self::handle_command(command, &api).await
    }
    
    async fn handle_command(command: Self::Commands, api: &ClickUpApi) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
        match command {
            MyCommands::List => list_items(api).await?,
            MyCommands::Show { id } => show_item(api, &id).await?,
        }
        Ok(())
    }
}
```

3. **Implement handler functions using utilities:**
```rust
async fn list_items(api: &ClickUpApi) -> Result<(), ClickUpError> {
    let items = api.get_items().await?;
    
    if items.is_empty() {
        DisplayUtils::display_empty_message("items");
        return Ok(());
    }
    
    let mut table_builder = TableBuilder::new();
    table_builder.add_header(vec![
        TableHeaders::id(),
        TableHeaders::name(),
    ]);
    
    for item in &items {
        table_builder.add_row(vec![
            item.id.clone(),
            item.name.as_deref().unwrap_or("").to_string(),
        ]);
    }
    
    table_builder.print();
    Ok(())
}
```

## Best Practices

1. **Always use utilities** for common operations (tables, display, errors)
2. **Follow the CommandExecutor pattern** for new commands
3. **Use TableHeaders constants** for consistent column names
4. **Handle empty results** with DisplayUtils::display_empty_message()
5. **Use ErrorUtils** for consistent error creation
6. **Use ApiUtils** for API client creation

## Testing

The standardized patterns make testing easier:
- Consistent error handling patterns
- Centralized API client creation
- Standardized display formatting
- Predictable command execution flow

## Future Enhancements

Potential areas for future improvement:
- Additional utility functions for common patterns
- More sophisticated table formatting options
- Enhanced error handling utilities
- Performance optimizations for large datasets

## Conclusion

The command module refactoring has successfully achieved its goals of reducing code duplication, improving maintainability, and ensuring consistency across all command modules. The standardized patterns provide a solid foundation for future development while making the codebase more readable and maintainable.
